# Quiz and 1 on 1's

## Possible questions
- What is a HTTP response lifecycle?
	- client sends req
	- req goes to dns to convert to ip address
	- this is sent to server sends back a response
	- then that response renders the page for client
- Explain what DevOps is?
	- automates dev process such as pipeline and useful for catching errors, deployment time quicker
		- more coordination between team members
	- Azure DevOps provides: 
		- boards, artifact, pipelines
			- artifact deployable component of the application, repositories, test plans
- Difference between VM and Containers
	- Vm has a hypervisor: lets you host multiple OS
	- Container is lighter and uses same Linux OS resources
- Describe the MVC model
	- models: stores data retrieved from the commands in the controller and displayed in the view.
		- it is a collection of classes that works with data and business logic
	- views
		- by using razor syntax, it's a way of displaying your models in HTML
		- a way of rendering info to the screen in HTML
	- controllers
		- From user inputs certain action methods are called that passes models if any to the views
		- bridge between the models and views
- Describe client side and server side validations and how to use?
	- client side is a way to prevent users to input wrong information into some form field
		- html side where you have drop down lists
		- MVC's Tag Helpers and HTML helpers are able to use the validation attributes and type metadata from model properties to render HTML 5 data- attributes in the form elements
			- tag helpers attached to HTML elements in razor views
				- modify this element
			- html helpers are invoked as methods that are mixed with HTML
	- server side prevents bad data from entering the server
		- through adding data annotations into your models
		- try and catch on your methods
		- catch sql injections from url and forms 
- waterfall vs iterative
	- waterfall: one way street through the planning, gather resources, building, testing, deployment
		- cons: not flexible to changes
		- pros: added security and more accountability
	- iterative: begins with resolving a set of requirements through each iteration and after some form of review, identify more requirements to work on
		- spiral model: go through a mini waterfall and get client feedback then apply feedback thrugh another mini waterfall
		- big bang model: quickly make a mvp 
		- agile: a way of taking in user stores and breaking those user stories into tasks to be worked upon
- Define the pipeline process
- Describe cloud (public, private, hybrid, multi) and it's type of services
	- cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, intelligence and more—over the Internet (“the cloud”)
	- public cloud gives any users with internet access to these types of cloud services. They provide elasticity, self-service, and scalability with control over some customization. You pay for the amount you use
	- private is being able to give services for a select users/organizations
		- along with everything that public cloud offers, it also provides a boost in security with its own firewalls and etc to protect more sensitive data.
	- IaaS: gives you a server in the cloud (virtual machine) that you have complete control over. 
		- along with storage and network
		- Azure and AWS in general are IaaS which provides us with the tools that we can purchase and use (storage, servers, etc)
	- PaaS: Platform as a service: an online service where they provide you with a lot of tools needed where all you need to do is give your application/code onto their server and the magic happens and your app is hosted, run, or built. 
		- some examples includes things like Azure AppService, Azure Pipelines, Heroku
	- SaaS: Software as a service: This is where as long as you have internet, you can download these online services. Some examples of this is office 365, azure websites

## recommended research
- DevOps and Agile
	- https://cloudacademy.com/blog/devops-agile-relationship/
	- Agile is a framework for building products and DevOps is a set of technical practices for deploying and running production systems.
	- Agile set the stage for DevOps. Agile provides teams a way to build software faster and thus deploy more often. DevOps provides teams a formula to deploy more often and increase quality.
	- Agile embraced the changing nature of requirements and prioritized working software over rigid processes
		- tackles the problem of building software
		- set of practices for developing software in teams and largely focused on planning and requirements.
	- DevOps collapsed the development and operations silos to improve both development and production operations
		- focuses on getting code into production and improving that process.
		- DevOps is an umbrella for technical practices like continuous integration, continuous delivery (or deployment), high levels of automation, and cross-functional teams.
			- The Principle of Flow: decrease the time from commit to code running in production. This metric is called lead time.
			- The Principle of Feedback: increase the feedback from production back to development (through practices like real-time monitoring and automated alerting)
			- The Principle of Continuous Learning and Experimentation: continuously improve and evolve processes
	-  Kanban has a set of principles to limit work in progress, track bottlenecks, and promote visibility
	- Scrum aims to make software development more predictable by setting a fixed time and scope for a sprint, then letting the team self organize and work through the issues as they arise.
		- Scrum uses a dedicated scrum master to manage the process setting requirements and clarifying how the product should work for engineers
	- Agile calls for fixed roles and responsibilities. Product Owner (or PO) is arguably the most important role since the PO is responsible for setting requirements and clarifying how the product should work for engineers.
- should be able to tell the names of azure services, what they do, and whether they fall into IaaS, Paas, SaaS.
	- IaaS:
		- is an instant computing infrastructure, provisioned and managed over the internet
		- With IaaS, you provision the VMs that you need, along with associated network and storage components. 
		-  A cloud computing service provider, such as Azure, manages the infrastructure, while you purchase, install, configure, and manage your own software—operating systems, middleware, and applications.
		- examples: Amazon EC2, Windows Azure, Rackspace, Google Compute Engine.
		- Deals with Virtual Machines, Storage (Hard Disks), Servers, Network, Load Balancers etc
	- PaaS
		- Platform as a service (PaaS) provides a managed hosting environment, where you can deploy your application without needing to manage VMs or networking resources.
		- Like IaaS, PaaS includes infrastructure—servers, storage, and networking—but also middleware, development tools, business intelligence (BI) services, database management systems, and more. PaaS is designed to support the complete web application lifecycle: building, testing, deploying, managing, and updating.
		- e.g. AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, Heroku, Force.com, Google App Engine, Apache Stratos.
		- Runtimes (like java runtimes), Databases (like mySql, Oracle), Web Servers (tomcat etc)
		- PAAS (Platform as a Service) is more popular among developers as they can put all their concentration on developing their apps and leave the rest of management and execution to the service provider. Many service providers also offer the flexibility to increase/decrease the CPU power depending upon the traffic loads giving developers cost effective and easy & effortless management.
	- SaaS:
		- provided with access to application software often referred to as "on-demand software". You don't have to worry about the installation, setup and running of the application. Service provider will do that for you. You just have to pay and use it through some client.
		- Google Apps, Microsoft Office 365.
		- Applications like email (Gmail, Yahoo mail etc), Social Networking sites (Facebook etc)
	- FaaS
		- Functions-as-a-Service (FaaS) goes even further in removing the need to worry about the hosting environment. Instead of creating compute instances and deploying code to those instances, you simply deploy your code, and the service automatically runs it.
	- VM
		- IaaS: allowing you to deploy and manage VMs inside a virtual network (VNet).
		- Azure VM gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs it
		- Development and test – Azure VMs offer a quick and easy way to create a computer with specific configurations required to code and test an application.
		- Applications in the cloud – Because demand for your application can fluctuate, it might make economic sense to run it on a VM in Azure. You pay for extra VMs when you need them and shut them down when you don’t.
		- Extended datacenter – Virtual machines in an Azure virtual network can easily be connected to your organization’s network.
	- SQL
		- you can have your SQL Server workloads running in a hosted infrastructure (IaaS) or running as a hosted service (PaaS).
			- Within PaaS, you have multiple deployment options and service tiers within each deployment option.
			- Azure SQL Database: A fully-managed SQL database engine which falls under PaaS
		- SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines falls into the industry category Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) and allows you to run SQL Server inside a fully-managed virtual machine in the Azure cloud.
	- AppService
		- is a managed PaaS offering for hosting web apps, mobile app back ends, RESTful APIs, or automated business processes.
	- Storage
- viewdata and viewbag are only ways to pass data from action method into the view. they can't (by themselves) go the other way, or from view to view, because they disappear across requests (unlike tempdata)
- waterfall vs agile/scrum
	- should be straight forward enough
- Views + layouts + partial views
- Html Helper vs Tag Helpers
- How is it possible for a view to process multiple models?
	- Using Dynamic Model
		- We can define our model as dynamic (not a strongly typed model) using the @model dynamic keyword.
		- we can create a new object and can add our list of teachers and students into it as a property. We can pass this dynamically created object to the view and render list of the teacher and student.
	- Using View Model
		- ViewModel is nothing but a single class that may have multiple models. It contains multiple models as a property. It should not contain any method.
		- In the above example, we have the required View model with two properties. This ViewModel is passed to the view as a model. To get intellisense in the view, we need to define a strongly typed view.
	- Using ViewData
		- ViewData is used to transfer data from the controller to the view. ViewData is a dictionary object that may be accessible using a string as the key. Using ViewData, we can pass any object from the controller to the view. The Type Conversion code is required when enumerating in the view.
	- Using ViewBag
		- ViewBag is similar to ViewData and is also used to transfer data from the controller to the view. ViewBag is a dynamic property. ViewBag is just a wrapper around the ViewData.
	- Using Tuple
		- A Tuple object is an immutable, fixed-size and ordered sequence object. It is a data structure that has a specific number and sequence of elements. The .NET framework supports tuples up to seven elements.
		- Using this tuple object we can pass multiple models from the controller to the view.
	- Using Render Action Method for Partial View
		- A Partial View defines or renders a partial view within a view. We can render some part of a view by calling a controller action method using the Html.RenderAction method. The RenderAction method is very useful when we want to display data in the partial view. The disadvantages of this method is that there are only multiple calls of the controller.
- What is routing?
- What are action methods?
- pipeline: build, test, static analysis, publish/deployment